---
layout: post
title: On Dart
tags: [dart]
---

[dart][4] recently reached 1.0 and is also heading to
<abbr>ECMA</abbr> for standardisation. A great time to check out
Google's javascript replacement.

At first glance dart is a bit of an ugly duckling: it seems rather
bland and dull, its syntax looks old fashioned. But look a
little closer and you will discover that is actually quite a gem.

- **dart comes with real dependency and build management.** `pub`
  provides a comprehensive set of commands to build, publish and
  handle dependencies of your project(s).

- **dart is fast.** While benchmarking is not a reliable measure of
  performance, the available data indicates that dart (and `dart2js`)
  compare very favorably javascript.

- **dart is built for the web.** While mainstream browsers with native
  dart support are still a thing of the very distant future, `dart2js`
  allows for efficient compilation to javascript. In the same vein
  dart ships with very intuitive javascript interoperability.

- **dart is convenient.** Arguably the most important feature of dart
  is its (optional) typing. I find that typing improves
  maintainability, readability and makes the tooling more powerful.

  dart also comes with scores of other handy features, such as string
  interpolation, useful syntactic sugar and a powerful standard
  library.

After the short dart tutorial and a cursory glance at [polymer][3], I have
decided to rewrite [talaria][1] in dart. So far the process has been
rather fun, polymer is incredibly powerful and writing polymer
components in dart feels intuitive and straightforward. dart itself is
really fun to write and the <abbr>IDE</abbr> makes getting started
really simple.

Of course dart still has its fair share of rough edges:

- In many ways the documentation[[^1]] is as inaccessible as the
  erlang documentation[[^2]].
- On <abbr>OSX</abbr> the dart <abbr>IDE</abbr> has a number of
  annoying bugs, most notably autocompletion regularly fails to work
  as expected [[^3]].
- The ecosystem is still in its infancy, this is exciting because
  there is a lot of opportunity to get involved, but also means
  that a number of the libraries you have come to love are not yet
  available or only exist as very early releases.

From my short experimentation with polymer, I believe that it will
play a big part in the future of web development. It just makes
sense. dart on the other hand is a no-nonsense tool that takes some of
the pain out of javascript. It is a modern and effective language for
(full-stack) web development.

[^1]: With the obvious exception of the excellent introduction offered by the [dart book][5].
[^2]: While initially inaccessible, erlang's documentation is among the most complete and comprehensive once you get your feet wet.
[^3]: Selecting one of the provided completions fails: Both the popup and the editor react to keyboard events. This means that by the time you select a completion, your cursor has moved away from its original position, and hitting `enter` adds a new line at some unexpected location instead of finalizing the completion. Double clicking a completion often does nothing at all.

[1]: https://github.com/m2w/talaria
[2]: https://www.dartlang.org/polymer-dart/
[3]: http://polymer-project.org
[4]: https://dartlang.org
[5]: https://www.dartlang.org/docs/dart-up-and-running/
